---
title: Pumpkin Cinnamon Bread Wreath
author: Kira
tags: Bread
---

*Summary*
I keep talking about soft textured japanese bread and water roux method in many of my bread posts. Well, let me show you how with few illustrations(pictures).

To celebrate the thanksgiving day, I decided to make pumpkin sweet bread, to make it more exciting I used cinnamon sugar filling.

This bread is my ultimate creation using water roux method. Look at the pretty braids, it had a wonderful soft texture. I had it when it is still warm, I absolutely loved it. Might as well say, I have fallen in love with bread baking.

*Pictures*

*Prep* 20 mins (proofing time: 1 hr 40 mins)
*Cook* 22 mins
*Total* 2 hrs

*Ingredients*
#Water Roux:
Bread flour - 1.5 tbsp (15 g)
Water - 7.5 tbsp (115 ml)
@
#Bread:
Bread flour (Strong white) - 285 g
Plain flour - 75 g
Caster Sugar, white - 65 g
Salt - 1/4 tsp plus 1/8 tsp
Yeast - 6 g
Egg - 1 medium
Pumpkin puree - 115 ml
Milk - 1 tbsp plus 1 tsp
Unsalted Butter - room temperature - 30 g
@
#Filling:
Caster Sugar, white - 80 g
Ground Cinnamon - 3 tsp
Unsalted Butter, melted - 40 g
@
*Instructions*
#Water Roux:
Using a whisk, mix the flour and water in a saucepan, make sure there are no lumps. 
image:Water Roux1.jpg
Cook the mixture on low heat until it thickens, stir frequently. 
image:Water Roux2.jpg
The thicken is right when the mixture coats the back of the spoon. Keep cooking for 1 more minute. Remove the saucepan from heat, cover with cling film and leave it to cool down to room temperature.
image:Water Roux3.jpg
image:Water Roux4.jpg
@
#Bread:
In a large mixing bowl, mix the bread flour, plain flour, sugar, salt and yeast.
Make a well in the middle of the flour mixture. Beat the egg, add it to the flour mixture and mix it well. 
Add the lukewarm water roux to the flour mixture and mix it well. 
Add the pumpkin puree and mix it well.
Knead the flour using the electric hand mixer with dough hook attachment. 
Heat the milk until its lukewarm. Gradually add the milk to flour mixture, knead until the flour resembles a sticky dough.
Chop the butter and add it to the dough. Knead the dough until the butter is well incorporated. The butter won't combine with the dough initially but as you knead it will work its way into the dough.
Check whether the dough stretches, if so stop kneading. 
image:Pumpkin Bread1.jpg
Shape the dough into a ball and place it in a lightly greased bowl, cover the bowl with cling film and let the dough rise for 1 hour or until doubled in size.
image:Pumpkin Bread2.jpg
@
#Shape into Wreath: 
Tip the dough on the lightly floured surface, shape into a rectangle of 1cm thickness using a rolling pin.
image:Pumpkin Bread3.jpg
Get the filling ready, melt the butter in microwave. In a separate bowl, mix the ground cinnamon with sugar. Using a pastry brush, spread the melted butter on the rectangular dough leaving 1 inch thickness for the border. Now, spread the cinnamon sugar mixture evenly. Start rolling it like a swiss roll starting with longer side of the rectangular dough. 
image:Pumpkin Bread4.jpg
Make sure to seal the edges by tucking it in. Keep the tuck edges under to make it look pretty.
image:Pumpkin Bread5.jpg
Note: You will have to work very quickly, because the sugar will start to melt.
To shape it like a wreath, use a sharp knife to the cut the log shape lengthwise, right in the middle, keeping one end attached, which will make it easier to braid. Keep crossing the two legs, each time making sure the cutside is on the top.
image:Pumpkin Bread6.jpg
Transfer it gently to the lightly greased baking sheet, cover with cling film and let it rise for 45 minutes or until doubled in size.
Preaheat the oven, during the last 15 minutes of the second proofing.
Check the dough, if there is any sugar oozed out, try to remove them using kitchen towel, atleast near the outer rim, this will prevent the bread from too much browning/burnt bottom especially.
Lightly brush the top of the wreath with butter. Bake at 180C fan for 20 ~ 22 minutes or until the crust is golden brown.
image:Pumpkin Bread7.jpg
image:Pumpkin Bread8.jpg
My goodness look at the texture, so soft I can't wait to eat. Oh, these fingers are not mine. There are little people living under my house, they too can't resist my sweet bread.
image:Pumpkin Bread9.jpg
@
