---
title: Rosemary and Garlic Focaccia
author: Kira
tags: Bread
---

*Summary*
What an wonderful weekend to start of with. I made the perfect rosemary &amp; garlic focaccia. I am always up for the challenge when it comes to baking bread. Most of the time, I use my electric hand mixer, which produces average result. I am still learning how to perfectly knead the bread dough by hand.

Recently, I borrowed an Italian cookbook from the library and I was too eager to tryout the focaccia. I decided to knead the dough by hand, it turned out to be a good exercise, but I realised I should have powerful muscle. After kneading for 15 minutes, I produced a perfectly smooth dough. The dough raised well during the first and second rise. I topped my focaccia mostly with fresh rosemary and garlic and a smaller portion of it with green olives and baked it to golden brown.

The freshly baked bread smell filled my house. After it had cool down a bit, I cut a piece to taste. It had many air pockets, I think my hand kneading is getting better :) . It tasted delicious with a thin crunchy top. It had nicely soaked up all the olive oil drizzled over it, intensifying the flavour with rosemary and garlic. It was one of my best focaccia so far.

Here is the picture of my Rosemary and garlic focaccia.

*Pictures*
image:Rosemary & Garlic Focaccia.jpg
image:Rosemary & Garlic Focaccia1.jpg

*Prep* 20 mins (proofing time: 1 hr 40 mins)
*Cook* 18 mins
*Total* 38 mins

*Ingredients*
#
Strong white bread flour - 500 g plus extra for dusting (I used Allison Strong white bread flour)
Easy bake yeast - 7 g packet (I used Allison easy bake yeast)
Fine salt / cooking salt - 2 tsp
Warm water - 300 ml
Olive oil - 3 tbsp
@
#Toppings:
Fresh Rosemary, leaves only discard the stem - 4 springs
Fresh Garlic, cut into 1 cm cube - 5 big cloves
Green Olives, pitted and halved - 10 (optional)
Olive oil - 3 tbsp
Coarse Sea salt - 1 tsp
@
*Instructions*
#
Measure all the ingredients. Note: Puff up the flour before measuring.
In a large mixing bowl, sift the flour, add the yeast and fine salt. Give everything a good mix. Form a well in the center of the bowl, pour in the warm water and 3 tbsp of olive oil.
With the back of the wooden spoon, mix the flour until everything is roughly combined.
Lightly dust the work area with dry flour. Transfer the dough to the work area and knead until smooth and elastic.
Take large mixing bowl, coat it with oil. Brush the kneaded dough with little oil and place it into the oiled bowl. Cover the bowl with clingfilm and leave it in a warm place to rise for 1 hour or until double in size.
Lightly oil the baking tray. Place the dough in the center of the baking tray. Use your fingertips to spread the dough around to form an oval shape about an inch thick. Lightly brush the dough with oil, cover with clingfilm and leave in warm place to rise for about 40 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 220 C Fan.
After the second rise, press your fingertips into the dough to make indentations. Gently push the rosemary and garlic into the dough. Drizzle the olive oil all over the dough. Sprinkle the dough with sea salt.
Bake in the middle shelf for about 18 minutes or until the crust looks golden brown.
Let the foaccia cool down a bit on the wire rack. Serve it warm along with soups, casesoles or on its own.
@
#Kneading:
Gather the dough together, shape into a small circle then fold in half.
Push the dough away from you, couple of times. Give a quarter turn, fold in half. Repeat this step until the dough is smooth and elastic.
Shape into a round ball, by tucking the sides at the bottom. 
@
