---
title: Mediterranean Loaf
author: Kira
tags: Bread
---

*Summary*
After my very successful Rosemary & Garlic Focaccia, I have taken quite an interest in making homemade bread. It is so much fun to make your own bread, it is satisfying and it taste much better than the store brought ones.

I like japanese buns for their softness, I improvised with my basic Japanese sweet bun recipe. Since, I like mediterreanean vegetables, I came up with an idea to make mediterranean loaf with water roux method to achieve the same softness as Japanese buns.

To create my loaf, I have used sundried tomatoes, black olives, red peppers, feta cheese, oregano and sprinkled with sea salt. The result was amazing with great flavours.

Here are the pictures of my mediterranean loaf made with water roux method.

*Pictures*
image:Mediterranean Bread1.jpg
image:Mediterranean Bread2.jpg

*Prep* 20 mins (proofing time: 1 hr 40 mins)
*Cook* 30 mins
*Total* 2 hrs 30 mins

*Ingredients*
#Water Roux:
Bread flour - 1.5 tbsp (15 g)
Water - 7.5 tbsp (113 ml)
@
#Loaf:
Bread flour (Strong white) - 285 g
Plain flour - 75 g
Salt - 1 tsp (8 g)
Yeast - 6 g
Egg - 1
Milk - 115 ml
Unsalted Butter - room temperature - 30 g
Dried Oregano - 1/2 tsp (If you like oregano you can 3/4 tsp)
Red Pepper, diced - 1/2 
Black Olives, chopped - 25 g
Sundried Tomatoes, drained from oil, chopped - 35 g (approx 3 tbsp)
Feta cheese, crumbled - 100 g
Extra virgin Olive oil - 2 tbsp
Rock salt - 1/4 tsp
@
*Instructions*
#Water Roux:
Using a whisk, mix the flour and water in a saucepan, make sure there are no lumps. 
Cook the mixture on low heat until it thickens, stir frequently. The thicken is right when the mixture coats the back of the spoon.
Keep cooking for 1 more minute. Remove the saucepan from heat, cover with cling film and leave it to cool down to room temperature.
@
#Loaf:
In a large mixing bowl, mix the bread flour, plain flour, salt and yeast.
Make a well in the middle of the flour mixture. Beat the egg, add it to the flour mixture and mix it well. 
Add the lukewarm water roux to the flour mixture and mix it well. 
Knead the flour using the electric hand mixer with dough hook attachment. 
Heat the milk until its lukewarm. Gradually add the milk to flour mixture, knead until the flour resembles a sticky dough.
Chop the butter and add it to the dough. Knead the dough until the butter is well incorporated. The butter won't combine with the dough initially but as you knead it will work its way into the dough.
Check whether the dough stretches, if so stop kneading. Shape the dough into a ball and place it in a lightly greased bowl, cover the bowl with cling film and let the dough rise for 1 hour or until doubled in size.
Meanwhile roast the red pepper in frying pan, at low heat to remove some of the moisture. Remove from heat and let it cool.
In a small mixing bowl, mix the oregano, red pepper, black olives, sundried tomatoes and feta cheese. 
After the first rise, tip the dough on lightly floured surface, knead the vegetable and cheese mixture into the dough.
Shape into a loaf and place it in the lightly greased loaf tin, cover with cling film and let it rise for 45 minutes or until doubled in size.
Score the loaf crosswise 5 or 6 times. Drizzle the olive oil of the top, sprinkle the rock salt.
Bake at 180C fan for 30 minutes or until the crust is golden brown.
@
